[MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So that second line
box square bracket size equals nine.
>> Speaker 2: Mm-hm.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: There's no way to get
that value out by using
indexing with integers.
>> Speaker 2: True.
True, because the only way you can get
the value nine out Is by looking it
up by the property name, which is size,
which is not number, right?
So.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So arrays can be
accessed by index number
as well as property names?
Yep.
So here I am using dot notation,
box dot size, box bracket size, right?
If you look at box.
And then we have our numerical
indices as well right?
We have meow and we also have woo hoo.
>> Speaker 2: Isn't it better
to say arrays can have can have
properties and
indices?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I'm not sure.
>> Speaker 2: Is box an object that
has an array as a property, or
is it an array that has
a object array sized.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Box is an object.
It's an array, but
an array is also an object.
So it's both an array and an object.
And the thing that's special about
arrays is not really numerical indexes,
it's really the properties and
the methods that come with it.
So that dot length property is
something that makes arrays different.
And based on the dot length property
you can calculate a lot of things.
So if you have an object that's
keeping track of the length, and
then you have the array methods
that are working off of the length.
Then you have an array.
So you can create your own array just by
having that magical length property that's
keeping track of the length.
And so, how the length property works,
it's only going to keep track of
the highest numerical indices,
so it's going to ignore size,
it's going to ignore itself.
Length itself is a property, right,
see we have this dot notation, box.length?
You know it's not counting that,
it's not counting box.push,
pop, things like that.
So it's only going to be keeping
track of those numerical indices,
and based on the length and the numerical
indecencies, those methods can do
cool things with the data that we have
stored in this array slash object.
>> Speaker 3: So if box is object,
then length would be three.
is that right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Well,
objects don't have a length property.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: So
because arrays are objects,
let's say you have an empty array you're
assigning meow to the first index?
Behind the scenes does it add
a property called zero and
then a value called meow or
whatever you're saying it is.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
that's a perfect way to think of it.
And that's kind of why
I draw it like this.
You can kind of see.
This is kind of how I think about it,
Is that it's just an object and
it has these properties on it.
And then it has the length property and
a bunch of methods that give us
some powerful functionality.
Like we can sort things,
we can reverse it.
Slice, all those things that
you can't do with an object.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: So when you're console
logging you're actually logging an object.
So that's why it shows the size.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: That's why we can
use this for, this other for loop.
Remember this, the for and loop will
work with box even if it's an array.
And that's because, cuz it's an object.
>> Speaker 2: In that case
you do pick up [INAUDIBLE].
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yes
in that case you do
because you just gonna be looping
through all of the property names.
That includes numerical properties as
well as named string properties yeah.
Oops.
Cool.
You had a question?
>> Speaker 4: There was
a question on why you would want
to add a property to the array.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: For different reasons.
This will.
It depends, you can add methods to it,
to the prototype and things.
That will add,
you can extend functionality that way.
You can.
I don't know.
Mm hm?
>> Speaker 4: And
then I guess following up from that,
another question I saw is if I have
an object with an attribute called length
push pop et cetera, it will be an array?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
So if the length property is keeping track
of the numerical indices, every time
you add something to it, then yes.
>> Speaker 4: Do we use object notation
and you add those properties to it,
it's not going to make it an array.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: But,
you can mimic array functionality.
>> Speaker 4: But
you have to build that all
into your-
>> Speaker 2: Well,
that's what he was saying.
If you do build it out,
they're both objects, right.
One is native, one is not.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: The only hard part
would be keeping track of the numerical.
So you'd have to have some way to know
whenever you're adding a property to
the object so
that you could adjust the length property.
So you'd have to user a getter or
setter or something.
>> Speaker 4: Adding the length
property to that doesn't make an array.
You're not gonna pick up
automatically the pop push slice.
>> Speaker 2: We have to act
he has to build all that up.
>> Speaker 4: He has to build all that up.
To make a fall that functionality.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
Right.
It's little more complicated, but.
Yeah.
Cool.
Sweet.
All right, what about this?
What's this gonna log?
Is this even gonna work?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Why?
>> Speaker 2: Cuz the length is in quotes.
Was looking for that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Because
length is in quotes?
What is length?
So length in quotes, again remember
it's the same as dot notation, right?
True?
Length in quotes the same as dot notation,
thumbs on that?
Cool.
So the length is 4.
Right, and that goes,
again to how length is working.
So length is keeping
track of the last index.
It's not keeping track of the number
of actual values in the array.
Mm hm?
>> Speaker 2: They wanted me to ask you
that in theory you could get away with
never using dot notation and
only using bracket notation.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: True,
you could only use bracket notation.
It's just more to type.
Cool, what about this?
What if I change this?
>> Speaker 2: Two.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Undefined because
length does not have quotes around it.
>> Speaker 2: That's tricky.
That's not fair.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I know.
You guys
should just know that I'm
tricking you the whole time.
And look out for that.
And think about those rules.
And as you're coding you should be
actively thinking about the rules.
Is this, series of characters,
is this a string,
is this a variable, is it
an expression that needs to evaluated.
You should always be thinking that and
keeping track of what it is.
And then, if it is a variable, you should
also be keeping track of what that
variable can represent in
different scenarios all the time.
Can't just take it for granted.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
can you go back one slide again?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Sure.
>> Speaker 2: What did you say at
the very tail end of this explanation?
Is that all it looks at the last-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah it looks at
the last, the highest,
numeric index and it adds one.
Because a length is always plus one.
>> Speaker 2: Because it's zero based.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Because
it's zero based, absolutely.
Mm hm.
>> Speaker 2: That's weird.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: That's programming.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: [COUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
Yeah, I tell some of my students
you're my number zero student.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Let's see.
So we did that one.
And then, here.
So what if we- What if we wanted
to look at the last index.
Of our array?
>> Speaker 4: Minus 1.
>> Speaker 2: Minus 1.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Like this?
>> Speaker 2: Just the length?
Just minus 1.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Actually
that only works with slice.
You're thinking of slice.
So.
>> Speaker 4: Box.length?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Box.length minus 1,
totally.
So box.length, right,
is gonna be four, and
then our last index is three as we can
see here, so we need to subtract one.
And then back to the thing about the
bracket notation being able to evaluate
expressions, this is a perfect
example of when you'd wanna do that.
So here we're doing a property look up and
we're doing math.
So all those things are happening and
those are things that you cannot do in
dot notation, and it just looks
weird right like look at this.
Right, that just doesn't look right.